[RFC#236] Add guide for String prototype extensions deprecation (#696)
ember-learn/deprecation-app: content/ember/v3/ember-string-prototype-extensions.md

---
id: ember-string.prototype-extensions
title: Deprecate String prototype extensions
until: '4.0.0'

> since: 'Upcoming Features'

Reviewer: I read the deprecations RFC a bit yesterday. Do the metadata here need to follow the proposed syntax in the RFC?

Author: I was thinking about the same thing, but given how we currently present and use the metadata I don't think it's necessary. I have an idea for an improvement to the app, though.

---

Calling one of the [Ember `String` methods](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/3.22/classes/String) (camelize, capitalize, classify, dasherize, decamelize, underscore) directly on a string is deprecated.

While Ember addons (`ember addon …`) have prototype extensions disabled by default, they are enabled for applications (`ember new …`) making you able to call `"Tomster".dasherize()`, for example.
Instead of calling the method on the string, you should instead import the function from `@ember/string`.

Before:

```js
let mascot = "Empress Zoey";

> mascot.camelize();   //=> empressZoey

Reviewer: For consistency:
```suggestion
mascot.camelize();   //=> "empressZoey"
```

mascot.capitalize(); //=> "Empress Zoey"
mascot.classify();   //=> "EmpressZoey"
mascot.decamelize(); //=> "empress zoey"
mascot.underscore(); //=> "empress_zoey"
mascot.w();          //=> [ "Empress", "Zoey" ]
```

After:

```js
import  {
  camelize,
  capitalize, 
  classify, 
  decamelize,
  underscore, 
  w, 
} from "@ember/string";

let mascot = "Empress Zoey";

> camelize(mascot);   //=> empressZoey

Reviewer: ```suggestion
camelize(mascot);   //=> "empressZoey"
```

capitalize(mascot); //=> "Empress Zoey"
classify(mascot);   //=> "EmpressZoey"
decamelize(mascot); //=> "empress zoey"
underscore(mascot); //=> "empress_zoey"
w(mascot);          //=> [ "Empress", "Zoey" ]
```

> You might want to replace these methods with another library, like [lodash](https://lodash.com/).

Reviewer: "might want to replace" sounded a bit like the methods from `@ember/string` may be deprecated altogether. If that isn't the case, what do you think about:

```suggestion
You may also instead rely on methods from another library like [lodash](https://lodash.com/).
```

Author: I hedged my bet here because the entire `@ember/string` "package" is deprecated, but we split up the RFC into three deprecations to make it easier to progress.
Let's make a note to tweak it further when the last deprecation lands.

Keep in mind that different libraries will behave in slightly different ways, so make sure any critical `String` transformations are thoroughly tested.

You can also [disable String prototype extensions](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/configuring-ember/disabling-prototype-extensions/) by editing your environment file:

```js
// config/environment.js
ENV = {
  EmberENV: {
    EXTEND_PROTOTYPES: {

>       Date: false,

Reviewer: I saw that `Date` is present by default in a new Ember app. I think we can just show `String`, and it's implied that other keys aren't shown in the sample code.
```suggestion
```

Author: I personally prefer to make the code block as close to the generated output as possible, so the reader doesn't wonder why we don't show `Date: false`.

Reviewer: Yep, I think that makes sense.
